JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening. I'm
Judy Woodruff.
Gwen Ifill is away.
On the "NewsHour" tonight:
BARACK OBAMA, President of the
United States:
Every time I think about those
kids. it gets
me mad. And, by the way, it
happens on the
streets of Chicago everyday.
JUDY WOODRUFF: President Obama
makes an emotional
appeal for background checks and
outlines
other actions to curb gun
violence.
Also ahead this Tuesday: how New
Hampshire
is grappling with a heroin
epidemic.
TED GATSAS (R), Mayor of
Manchester, New Hampshire:
We need to do something about
it. If we don't,
we're not going to have to worry
about building
more beds to try and treat
people. We're going
to have to start building more
coffins.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And photographer
and MacArthur
grant winner LaToya Ruby Frazier
on why she
documents her struggling
hometown.
LATOYA RUBY FRAZIER,
Photographer: I'm not
saying that it's a dying town.
I'm saying
that we survived. Like, look at
all of the
damage, all the abuse we have
endured, and
we're still steadfast and
existing.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: The president was
by turns
tearful and tough today, as he
pushed a plan
to regulate more gun sales. He
said he's targeting
transactions at shows and flea
markets because
Congress is afraid to cross the
gun lobby.
The National Rifle Association
answered that
the proposals are -- quote --
"ripe for abuse."
We will have the story in full
after the news
summary.
In the day's other news, an
American soldier
died in a firefight in Southern
Afghanistan.
Two other U.S. service members
were wounded,
along with several Afghan
soldiers. Pentagon
officials said it happened in
Helmand Province,
and the fighting continued for
hours.
PETER COOK, Pentagon Press
Secretary: There
is fighting on the ground as we
speak, which
is why it's hard for us to have
every single
detail as to what's transpired,
and there's
been an effort once again, as I
mentioned
before, to make sure that
everything's being
done to secure the safety of
those Americans
and the Afghan forces that
they're accompanying
in this particular situation in
Helmand.
JUDY WOODRUFF: U.S. special
operations forces
have been working with Afghan
troops in Helmand
in recent weeks to repel new
Taliban attacks.
Fighting in Yemen returned to
full pitch today,
just days after a shaky truce
ended. Shiite
rebels blasted the city of Marib
with a rocket
barrage, while Saudi Arabia
launched new airstrikes
in a series of cities, including
Sanaa. Residents
of the capital surveyed the
damage today.
Some accused the Saudis of
hitting civilian
targets, including a health
center for the
blind, but there were no
casualties.
In Turkey, an all-too-familiar
scene today,
as the bodies of dozens more
migrants washed
up on shore. Authorities say at
least 36 people
drowned when their boats
capsized in the Aegean
Sea trying to reach Greece.
Turkish crews
found the victims strewn along
beaches. They
also managed to rescue at least
12 others
from the choppy waters, but a
mass migration
agency said the danger has not
deterred people.
JOEL MILLMAN, International
Organization for
Migration: Migrants and refugees
continue
to enter Greece at a rate of
over 2,500 a
day from Turkey, which is very
close to the
average through December, so we
see the migrant
flows are continuing through the
winter, and,
obviously, the fatalities are
continuing as
well.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Last year, nearly
3,800 migrants
died trying to reach Europe by
sea.
Back in this country, the gun
control debate
dominated presidential politics
today, with
one exception. Democratic
hopeful Bernie Sanders
went after Wall Street, calling
it an industry
fueled by greed, fraud and
arrogance. He told
a crowd in New York that he'd
break up the
nation's big banks in his first
year in office.
The armed men occupying a
national wildlife
refuge in Oregon now say that
they will stay
until federal officials let
locals manage
the land. They made that demand
today at the
site they have occupied since
Saturday night.
Their leader also dismissed a
sheriff's appeal
that they go home. He said local
people welcome
their presence.
AMMON BUNDY, Armed Protester: We
also appreciate
the advice that the community
members have
given us about how to reach out
and how to
share our message, so that other
community
members will know that we are
not about fear.
We're not about force. We're not
about intimidation.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So far, federal
agents have
made no move to physically force
the group
to leave.
2015, it turns out, was a banner
year for
U.S. automakers, the best ever,
in fact. Industry
officials projected today that
nearly 17.5
million vehicles were sold
through December.
That tops the old record set in
2000. General
Motors led the pack with more
than three million
cars and trucks sold.
The stock market struggled to
make any headway
today, after Monday's big
losses. The Dow
Jones industrial average gained
nine points
to close at 17158. The Nasdaq
rose 11 points,
and the S&P 500 added four.
And West Point now has its first
female commandant
of cadets. Brigadier General
Diana Holland
was sworn in today at the United
States Military
Academy. She's a West Point
graduate herself
and a veteran of the Iraq and
Afghanistan
wars. Holland's appointment
comes one month
after the military opened all
combat roles
to women, and 40 years since
West Point admitted
women as cadets.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
the president's
order on guns, too far or not
far enough?;
a view from Tehran as tensions
with Saudi
Arabia escalate; tracing
Benjamin Netanyahu's
path to power; what can be done
to loosen
heroin's grip on New Hampshire;
and much more.